[DOC]Restructuring (#3890)
pachyderm/pachyderm: doc/concepts/pipeline-concepts/pipeline/cross-union.md

# Cross and Union Inputs

> <!---This section needs to be made more clear. There is a lot of information

Reviewer: agreed. Let's discuss further

    ]
}
```

Then, in the pipeline, all datums appear in the same directory.

```bash
/pfs/C/1.txt  # from A
/pfs/C/2.txt  # from A
/pfs/C/3.txt  # from A
/pfs/C/1.txt  # from B
/pfs/C/2.txt  # from B
/pfs/C/3.txt  # from B
```

## Cross Input

A cross input, instead of appending datums from one repository to datums
in the other repository,
multiplies each datum from one repository with each datum from another
repository. In other words, a cross input
combines all the datums and provides them to the pipeline
that uses this combination as input and treats each combination
as a separate datum.

For example, you have repositories `A` and `B` with the following
structures:

**Note:** For this example, the glob pattern is set to `/*`

Repository `A` has the following structure:

```bash
A
├── 1.txt
├── 2.txt
└── 3.txt
```

Repository `B` has the following structure:

```bash
B
├── 1.txt
├── 2.txt
└── 3.txt
```

Although the files have identical names, each file has different content.
To create a combination of each file, the pipeline needs to process nine
datums without any specific order:

**Important:** In cross pipelines, both directories are visible during
processing.

```bash

> /pfs/A/1.txt    /pfs/A/1.txt    /pfs/A/1.txt

Reviewer: In general, an image or simple gif (we can make them much much much simpler and better than the gifs we have now) would make this concept even clearer than the code block above. I can help you design these to be really simple.

/pfs/B/1.txt    /pfs/B/2.txt    /pfs/B/3.txt

/pfs/A/2.txt    /pfs/A/2.txt    /pfs/A/1.txt
/pfs/B/1.txt    /pfs/B/2.txt    /pfs/B/2.txt

/pfs/A/3.txt    /pfs/A/3.txt    /pfs/A/1.txt
/pfs/B/1.txt    /pfs/B/2.txt    /pfs/B/3.txt
```

In cross inputs, you cannot specify the same `name` to the combined

> input repositories to avoid name collisions. Both directories are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
input repositories or else there could be name collisions. Both directories are
```

# Cross and Union Inputs

<!---This section needs to be made more clear. There is a lot of information
that I would say describes the things you can do with a cross or union pipeline
but does not really have a good and clear explanation of what they are -->

Pachyderm enables you to combine multiple
input repositories in a single pipeline by using the `union` and
`cross` operators in the pipeline specification. Such pipelines
are called *union pipeline or input* and *cross pipeline or input*.

If you are familiar with [Set theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Set_theory),

> you can think of union as a *disjoint union binary operator* and of cross as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can think of union as a *disjoint union binary operator* and cross as a
```

*cartesian product binary operator*. However, if you are unfamiliar with these
concepts, it is still easy to understand how cross and union work in Pachyderm.

> This section describes how to use `cross` and `union` pipelines and how you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to use `cross` and `union` in your pipelines and how you
```

can optimize your code when you work with them.

## Union Input

The union input combines each of the datums in the input repos as one
set of datums.
The number of datums that are processed is the sum of all the
datums in each repo.

For example, you have two input repos, `A` and `B`. Each of these
repositories contain three files with the following names.

Repository `A` has the following structure:

```bash
A
├── 1.txt
├── 2.txt
└── 3.txt
```

Repository `B` has the following structure:

```bash
B
├── 4.txt
├── 5.txt
└── 6.txt
```

If you want your pipeline to process each file independently as a
separate datum, use a glob pattern of `/*`. Each
glob is applied to each input independently. The input section
in the pipeline spec might have the following structure:

```bash
"input": {
    "union": [
        {
            "pfs": {
                "glob": "/*",
                "repo": "A"
            }
        },
        {
            "pfs": {
                "glob": "/*",
                "repo": "B"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

In this example, each Pachyderm repository has those three files in the root

> directory, and you have six datums in total, which is the sum of the number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory so 3 datums from each input.  Therefore, the union of `A` and `B` will have six datums in total.
```

> of input files.

Reviewer: delete

Your pipeline processes the following datums without any specific order:

```bash
/pfs/A/1.txt
/pfs/A/2.txt
/pfs/A/3.txt
/pfs/B/4.txt
/pfs/B/5.txt
/pfs/B/6.txt
```

**Note:** Each datum in a pipeline is processed independently by a single
execution of your code. In this example, your code runs six times and each
datum is available to it one at a time. For example, your code
processes `pfs/A/1.txt` in one of the runs and `pfs/B/5.txt` in a different run,
and so on. In a union, two or more datums are never available to your code

> at the same time. Read next section to learn how you can simplify

Reviewer: > Read next section to learn how you can simplify
your pipeline by using the `name` property.

Awkward phrasing. Maybe something like:

"You can simplify your Union code by using the 'name' field as described below. " I dont love my wording either

your pipeline by using the `name` property.

### Simplifying the Union Pipelines code

In the example above, your code needs to read into the `pfs/A`

> or `pfs/B` directory because only one of them exists in the datum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_or_ `pfs/B` directory because only one of them will be present in any given datum. This can be an annoying `if` statement to have to deal with in your code.
```
